Requirements
============
* Python 2.7.x
* pip
* virtualenv (recommended)
* virtualenvwrapper (recommended)

Installing Python 2.7.x
-----------------------
Python 2.7.x may already be installed on your system, especially if you're running a newer version of OS X. If not, you can download the right version of Python at http://www.python.org/download/.

Installing pip
--------------
Pip is a package manager that installs other Python packages. Download pip at http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip#downloads. Once downloaded, decompress the archiveand run `python setup.py` inside the resulting folder.

If that doesn't work, you may need to run the command with administrator privileges: `sudo python setup.py`

Installing virtualenv
---------------------
Virtualenv isn't required, but it will prevent different versions of various Python packages from different installations "polluting" each other. To install virtualenv, just run `pip install virtualenv` or, if that fails, `sudo pip install virtualenv`.

Installing virtualenvwrapper
----------------------------
Virtualenvwrapper also isn't required, but it makes virtualenv a lot easier to use. Again, to install, just run `pip install virtualenvwrapper` or, if that fails, `sudo pip install virtualenvwrapper`.

You also have to create some environment variables:

    export WORKON_HOME=$HOME/.virtualenvs
    export PIP_VIRTUALENV_BASE=$WORKON_HOME
    source /usr/local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh

You should also place the above code in your .profile or .bash\_login file, so virtualenvwrapper is initialized correctly whenever you log in.

Getting Started
===============
To get started, you'll want to:

* Clone this repository if you haven't done so already
* Create a virtualenv (optional)
* Run bootstrap.py
* Run the development server
* Running the test suite

Cloning the Repository
----------------------
Run `git clone git@github.com:fongandrew/MASTA.git`

Creating a virtualenv
---------------------
If you installed virtualenvwrapper, just run `mkvirtualenv masta`. You can replace "masta" with any name you want. All python commands will use the virtualenv's libraries instead of the global Python packages.

To deactivate virtualenv, just enter in `deactivate`. To reactivate a particular virtualenv (e.g. after you logged off and logged back in), run `workon masta`, again where "masta" can replaced with the name you chose earlier.

See http://www.doughellmann.com/docs/virtualenvwrapper/ to learn more about using virtualenvwrapper.

Running bootstrap.py
---------------------
Run `./bootstrap.py` to install any additional Python libraries this app depends on. Whenever you pull updates from the git repository, you should run bootstrapy.py again to install newly added requirements.

Running the development server
------------------------------
To launch the development server, run `gae/dev_appserver.py app/`. The site will be accessible at http://localhost:8080/. To shut down the server, press Ctrl+C.

Running the test suite
----------------------
This app is designed to run on Google App Engine. Because App Engine has unique constraints, automated testing is run through the development server.

To test, make sure the development server is running first. Next, run `./test.py` in the main project directory. This will scan all of the Python modules for tests and run them. If everything is running correctly, you'll get a message that there were no errors or failures.